This is a readme page. 

Smart Hat is a hat that allows the visually impaired to experience the world as if they could actually see. Using the camera and various sensors mounted on the raspberry pi, we capture the data from the outside world and analyze the data using our software which is then relayed to the user via an earpiece. This allows the user to have instant information on the environment without having to speak or input commands. 

 
2. Aims and Objectives:

We aim to give the user concise and important information about the environment around then. The objective is to use the camera, ultrasonic sensor and the wifi and bluetooth detector to capture the data and use our software to parse through all the data and pick and choose the ones that should be relayed to the user via the head piece. The ultrasonic sensor will be mounted on the front of the hat. It warns the user when there is an object about to hit the user’s head. A beeping noise indicate the distance from the object, where the more frequent the beep , the closer the user is to the object. Using the raspberry pi’s wifi capabilities we also want to use the raspberry pi as a beacon to help the user identify places as they walk around the environment. As the user walks around, it will pick up a shop’s wifi access point and the shop’s name will be relayed to the user. This will be limited to big brand shops as the small ones have unpredictable wifi names. As for camera it would detect the important information, such as stop signs , with would tell the user what is in front of them by the audio out to user. It would also detect transportation , then would produce sound out to the user to hear in front of user with might make user stop by. Each of the features will have their own thread in our software, and it only raises an interrupt if it has valuable information to share. A spinlock is required because all three threads are attempting to output to the same earphones. Except for pi camera because it will be on a different raspberry device. 

